README.md, before:

# grunt-svgstore [![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/grunt-svgstore.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/grunt-svgstore) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore)

> Merge SVGs from a folder.

## Why?
Because [Chris Coyier](http://shoptalkshow.com/episodes/103-louis-lazaris/#t=33:52) asked.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.5`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-svgstore --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-svgstore');
```

## Screencast 

Chris made a screencast, using `grunt-svgstore` in a real project, you can find it [here](http://css-tricks.com/video-screencasts/screencast-134-tour-site-progress-built-jekyll-grunt-sass-svg-system/).


## The "svgstore" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `svgstore` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  svgstore: {
    options: {
      prefix : 'icon-', // This will prefix each ID
      svg: { // will add and overide the the default xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" attribute to the resulting SVG
        viewBox : '0 0 100 100',
        xmlns: 'http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      }
    },
    your_target: {
      // Target-specific file lists and/or options go here.
    },
  },
});
```

### Options

#### options.prefix
Type: `String`  
Default value: `''`  

A string value that is used to prefix each filename to generate the id.

#### options.svg
Type: `Object`  
Default value: `{}`  

An object that is used to generate attributes for the resulting `svg` file.
```js
{
  viewBox: '0 0 100 100'
}
```
will result in:

```svg
<svg viewBox="0 0 100 100">
[...]
```

#### options.symbol (since 0.2.4)
Type: `Object`  
Default value: `{}`  

Just like `options.svg` but will add attributes to each generated `<symbol>`.


#### options.formatting (since 0.0.4)
Type: `Object` or `boolean`  
Default value: `false`  

Formatting options for generated code.

To format the generated HTML, set `formatting` with [options](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify#options) like: `{indent_size : 2}`, which in context looks like:

```js
default: {
  options: {
    formatting : {
      indent_size : 2
    }
  }
```
See [js-beautify](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify) for more options.

#### options.includedemo (since 0.3.5)
Type: `boolean|string|function`  
Default value: `false`

This will include a demo HTML (named like `destName + -demo.html`) from where you can copy your `<use>` blocks.

The default template used looks like:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <style>
      svg{
       width:50px;
       height:50px;
       fill:black !important;
      }
    </style>
  <head>
  <body>
    {{{svg}}}

    {{#each icons}}
        <svg>
          <use xlink:href="#{{name}}" />
        </svg>
    {{/each}}

  </body>
</html>
```

Since `0.3.5` you can customise this by passing in a `string` that will be compiled via `handlebars` and used as a tempalte. If it is a function this function is expeced to take one parameter and return a string. 

The data passed to the template looks like this:
```js
{
  svg : '[raw HTML of the generated svg]',
  icons : [
    name : 'name of an item',
    title : 'extracted title or name'
  ]
}
```

#### options.cleanup (since 0.2.6)
Type: `boolean`  or `Array`
Default value: `false`  

Clean up all inline style definitions that may jeopardise later stylesheet-based colouring (`fill`).
Apart from true / false, the value of this property can be an array of attributes. 
All attributes in the array are removed from all elements in the SVG.

#### options.cleanupdefs (since 0.3.0)
Type: `boolean`  
Default value: `false`  

When set to false, no cleanup is performed on the `<defs>` element.



### Usage Examples

This example will merge all elements from the `svgs` folder into the `<defs>`-Block of the `dest.svg`. You can use that SVG in HTML like:

```html
<!-- Include dest.svg -->

[...]

<svg><use xlink:href="#filename" /></svg>
````

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  svgstore: {
    options: {},
    default : {
      files: {
        'dest/dest.svg': ['svgs/*.svg'],
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

## Release History

#### 0.3.6

  * Preserve currentColor in `fill` attribute even if `cleanup` is set to `true. (See [#63](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/63)) 

#### 0.3.5

  * Add the ability to use [`handlebars`](http://handlebarsjs.com/) templates in `options.includedemo`.

#### 0.3.4

  * Fixed an issue with SMIL animations inside a svg symbole (See [#56](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/56))
  * Update to cheerio `0.17.0`

#### 0.3.3

  * Fix broken id references between nested `<symbol>` tags. (See [#50](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/50#issuecomment-52271449))

#### 0.3.2 
  
  * Move `linearGradient`, `radialGradient` and `pattern` elements out of the `<symbol>` tag. (See [#49](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/49))

#### 0.3.1

  * Fix removal of unreferenced IDs (See [#46](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/46))

#### 0.3.0

  * Changed the way ID are collected; <del>unreferenced IDs are removed now in order to save space.</del> ([#40](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/40))
  * Changed the behavior of the 'cleanup'-option (introduced in 0.2.6). Apart from true / false, the value of this property can now be an array of attributes. All attributes in the array are removed from all elements in the SVG. ([#41](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/41))
  * Added an option 'cleanupdefs' (default: false). When set to false, no cleanup is performed on the `<defs>` element. ([#41](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/41))
  * Empty `<g>` elements are removed since they have no effect in a document. ([#42](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/42))
  
Thanks to [Frank3K](https://github.com/Frank3K) for the PRs

#### 0.2.7
  * Don't generate IDs that start with a number by prefixing them with `svgstore`. (Thanks to [#38](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/38))

#### 0.2.6
  * Add `options.clean` to remove inline styles from source svgs. (Thanks to [ain](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/37))
  * Reformat source to use 2 spaces for indentation (Fix [#36](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/36))

#### 0.2.5
  * To generate the id from the filename is now used as a title. (Fix [#33](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/33))

#### 0.2.4
  * Added `options.symbol` to add attributes to generated `<symbol>`s ([#30](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/30))
  * To generate the id from the filename the name is now cut right before the first dot. `name.min.svg` becomes `name`. (Fixes [#29](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/29))

#### 0.2.3
  * Fixed lower case `viewBox` in outputted svg (fix [#26](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/26))

#### 0.2.2
  * Fixed a bug where self-closing elements where nested.

#### 0.2.1
  * Move `<symbol>`-tag out of `<defs>`-tag (see the [spec](http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG11/struct.html#SymbolElement))
  * Only create `<defs>`-tag if needed (e.g.  `<linearGradient>` is used)

#### 0.2.0
  * Use a `<symbol>`-tag for representing icons (See [TxHawks Comment](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/16#issuecomment-43786059).)
  * Write the `viewBox` attribute to the `<symbol>`-tag,
  * Include `title` and `desc` elements in the generated svg for each `<symbol>`
  * use 'filename' as a fallback for `title`
  * Fix issue [#1](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/1)

#### 0.1.0
  * Always add `xmlns` namspace.
  * Added the `includedemo` option.
  * Fixed Issues [#20](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/20), [#19](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/19), [#18](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/18)

#### 0.0.4
  * Fixed issue with referencing ids with `url()` (fix [#12](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/12))

#### 0.0.3
  * Added `options.formatting` to format svg via [js-beautify](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify)

#### 0.0.2
  * Fixed npm dependencies

#### 0.0.1
  * Inital release

Commit message:

Documentation for whviewbox flag
Adds a new entry after the existing symbol option explaining how
whviewbox works and how it differs from the default behavior, including
a short example.

README.md, after:

# grunt-svgstore [![NPM version](https://badge.fury.io/js/grunt-svgstore.svg)](http://badge.fury.io/js/grunt-svgstore) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore)

> Merge SVGs from a folder.

## Why?
Because [Chris Coyier](http://shoptalkshow.com/episodes/103-louis-lazaris/#t=33:52) asked.

## Getting Started
This plugin requires Grunt `~0.4.5`

If you haven't used [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/) before, be sure to check out the [Getting Started](http://gruntjs.com/getting-started) guide, as it explains how to create a [Gruntfile](http://gruntjs.com/sample-gruntfile) as well as install and use Grunt plugins. Once you're familiar with that process, you may install this plugin with this command:

```shell
npm install grunt-svgstore --save-dev
```

Once the plugin has been installed, it may be enabled inside your Gruntfile with this line of JavaScript:

```js
grunt.loadNpmTasks('grunt-svgstore');
```

## Screencast 

Chris made a screencast, using `grunt-svgstore` in a real project, you can find it [here](http://css-tricks.com/video-screencasts/screencast-134-tour-site-progress-built-jekyll-grunt-sass-svg-system/).


## The "svgstore" task

### Overview
In your project's Gruntfile, add a section named `svgstore` to the data object passed into `grunt.initConfig()`.

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  svgstore: {
    options: {
      prefix : 'icon-', // This will prefix each ID
      svg: { // will add and overide the the default xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" attribute to the resulting SVG
        viewBox : '0 0 100 100',
        xmlns: 'http://www.w3.org/2000/svg'
      }
    },
    your_target: {
      // Target-specific file lists and/or options go here.
    },
  },
});
```

### Options

#### options.prefix
Type: `String`  
Default value: `''`  

A string value that is used to prefix each filename to generate the id.

#### options.svg
Type: `Object`  
Default value: `{}`  

An object that is used to generate attributes for the resulting `svg` file.
```js
{
  viewBox: '0 0 100 100'
}
```
will result in:

```svg
<svg viewBox="0 0 100 100">
[...]
```

#### options.symbol (since 0.2.4)
Type: `Object`  
Default value: `{}`  

Just like `options.svg` but will add attributes to each generated `<symbol>`.


#### options.whviewbox
Type: `boolean`  
Default value: `false`

By default, each generated `<symbol>` will only automatically have a `viewBox`
attribute set if the original source SVG file for that symbol has a `viewBox`.

When `whviewbox` is set to `true`, if the source SVG has no `viewBox` but it
*does* have a pixel-based `width` and `height`, then the `<symbol>` `viewBox`
will be derived using those values instead.

For example, with `whviewbox: true`,

```svg
<svg width="256" height="128">
```

will result in:

```svg
<symbol viewBox="0 0 256 128" ...>
```

#### options.formatting (since 0.0.4)
Type: `Object` or `boolean`  
Default value: `false`  

Formatting options for generated code.

To format the generated HTML, set `formatting` with [options](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify#options) like: `{indent_size : 2}`, which in context looks like:

```js
default: {
  options: {
    formatting : {
      indent_size : 2
    }
  }
```
See [js-beautify](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify) for more options.

#### options.includedemo (since 0.3.5)
Type: `boolean|string|function`  
Default value: `false`

This will include a demo HTML (named like `destName + -demo.html`) from where you can copy your `<use>` blocks.

The default template used looks like:

```html
<!doctype html>
<html>
  <head>
    <style>
      svg{
       width:50px;
       height:50px;
       fill:black !important;
      }
    </style>
  <head>
  <body>
    {{{svg}}}

    {{#each icons}}
        <svg>
          <use xlink:href="#{{name}}" />
        </svg>
    {{/each}}

  </body>
</html>
```

Since `0.3.5` you can customise this by passing in a `string` that will be compiled via `handlebars` and used as a tempalte. If it is a function this function is expeced to take one parameter and return a string. 

The data passed to the template looks like this:
```js
{
  svg : '[raw HTML of the generated svg]',
  icons : [
    name : 'name of an item',
    title : 'extracted title or name'
  ]
}
```

#### options.cleanup (since 0.2.6)
Type: `boolean`  or `Array`
Default value: `false`  

Clean up all inline style definitions that may jeopardise later stylesheet-based colouring (`fill`).
Apart from true / false, the value of this property can be an array of attributes. 
All attributes in the array are removed from all elements in the SVG.

#### options.cleanupdefs (since 0.3.0)
Type: `boolean`  
Default value: `false`  

When set to false, no cleanup is performed on the `<defs>` element.



### Usage Examples

This example will merge all elements from the `svgs` folder into the `<defs>`-Block of the `dest.svg`. You can use that SVG in HTML like:

```html
<!-- Include dest.svg -->

[...]

<svg><use xlink:href="#filename" /></svg>
````

```js
grunt.initConfig({
  svgstore: {
    options: {},
    default : {
      files: {
        'dest/dest.svg': ['svgs/*.svg'],
      },
    },
  },
});
```

## Contributing
In lieu of a formal styleguide, take care to maintain the existing coding style. Add unit tests for any new or changed functionality. Lint and test your code using [Grunt](http://gruntjs.com/).

## Release History

#### 0.3.6

  * Preserve currentColor in `fill` attribute even if `cleanup` is set to `true. (See [#63](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/63)) 

#### 0.3.5

  * Add the ability to use [`handlebars`](http://handlebarsjs.com/) templates in `options.includedemo`.

#### 0.3.4

  * Fixed an issue with SMIL animations inside a svg symbole (See [#56](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/56))
  * Update to cheerio `0.17.0`

#### 0.3.3

  * Fix broken id references between nested `<symbol>` tags. (See [#50](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/50#issuecomment-52271449))

#### 0.3.2 
  
  * Move `linearGradient`, `radialGradient` and `pattern` elements out of the `<symbol>` tag. (See [#49](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/49))

#### 0.3.1

  * Fix removal of unreferenced IDs (See [#46](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/46))

#### 0.3.0

  * Changed the way ID are collected; <del>unreferenced IDs are removed now in order to save space.</del> ([#40](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/40))
  * Changed the behavior of the 'cleanup'-option (introduced in 0.2.6). Apart from true / false, the value of this property can now be an array of attributes. All attributes in the array are removed from all elements in the SVG. ([#41](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/41))
  * Added an option 'cleanupdefs' (default: false). When set to false, no cleanup is performed on the `<defs>` element. ([#41](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/41))
  * Empty `<g>` elements are removed since they have no effect in a document. ([#42](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/42))
  
Thanks to [Frank3K](https://github.com/Frank3K) for the PRs

#### 0.2.7
  * Don't generate IDs that start with a number by prefixing them with `svgstore`. (Thanks to [#38](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/38))

#### 0.2.6
  * Add `options.clean` to remove inline styles from source svgs. (Thanks to [ain](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/37))
  * Reformat source to use 2 spaces for indentation (Fix [#36](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/36))

#### 0.2.5
  * To generate the id from the filename is now used as a title. (Fix [#33](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/33))

#### 0.2.4
  * Added `options.symbol` to add attributes to generated `<symbol>`s ([#30](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/pull/30))
  * To generate the id from the filename the name is now cut right before the first dot. `name.min.svg` becomes `name`. (Fixes [#29](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/29))

#### 0.2.3
  * Fixed lower case `viewBox` in outputted svg (fix [#26](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/26))

#### 0.2.2
  * Fixed a bug where self-closing elements where nested.

#### 0.2.1
  * Move `<symbol>`-tag out of `<defs>`-tag (see the [spec](http://www.w3.org/TR/SVG11/struct.html#SymbolElement))
  * Only create `<defs>`-tag if needed (e.g.  `<linearGradient>` is used)

#### 0.2.0
  * Use a `<symbol>`-tag for representing icons (See [TxHawks Comment](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/16#issuecomment-43786059).)
  * Write the `viewBox` attribute to the `<symbol>`-tag,
  * Include `title` and `desc` elements in the generated svg for each `<symbol>`
  * use 'filename' as a fallback for `title`
  * Fix issue [#1](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/1)

#### 0.1.0
  * Always add `xmlns` namspace.
  * Added the `includedemo` option.
  * Fixed Issues [#20](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/20), [#19](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/19), [#18](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/18)

#### 0.0.4
  * Fixed issue with referencing ids with `url()` (fix [#12](https://github.com/FWeinb/grunt-svgstore/issues/12))

#### 0.0.3
  * Added `options.formatting` to format svg via [js-beautify](https://github.com/einars/js-beautify)

#### 0.0.2
  * Fixed npm dependencies

#### 0.0.1
  * Inital release
